MR. DAVIS:  We're back on the record.  It's 12:06 p.m. 
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. All right.  Mr. Simpson, I'm going to 
return to the topic of Prevezon.  Let me know if 
I'm accurately summarizing the scope of work you're 
describing.  I think you've described three main 
areas so far.  First is that you were investigating 
Prevezon's side of the story to see if it was 
credible; the second is you were investigating Bill 
Browder's ties to the U.S. and related subpoena 
issues; and the third is that you were 
investigating Bill Browder's Russian businesses.  
Is that correct?  
      MR. LEVY:  I think he said a lot more than 
that, but go ahead.  
      MR. DAVIS:  I listed the main topics.  That's 
where we left off.  
      MR. LEVY:  I don't think that's the main 
topics either, but go ahead.  
BY THE WITNESS:
      A. Is that a yes-or-no question?  I think 
those are three things I covered, but I covered a 
lot of stuff.  
      Q. With the information that you gathered in 
those and related efforts, what did you do with the 
information once you obtained it?  
      A. Well, the first thing you do is you give 
it to the lawyers and, you know, when appropriate 
you give it to reporters, you know, put it in court 
filings.  
      Q. So is it correct, then, people associated 
with Fusion did communicate with journalists about 
the Prevezon case and the information you found out 
about Mr. Browder?
      A. Yes.  
      Q. And did Fusion engage in these 
communications with the media on its own accord or 
were you directed or authorized to do so?  
      A. In litigation support, you know, basically 
the cases that we work on frequently get some media 
attention.  So it's always part of a litigation 
engagement that if you're the guy that does the 
research, you're going to end up talking to 
reporters because they're going to ask questions 
about, you know, information from the case.  
      MR. LEVY:  Just make sure you answer his 
question.  Was it done?
BY THE WITNESS:
      A. That's part of what the lawyers hire you 
to do and that's what they instruct you to do.  The 
way it generally happens is the lawyer gets a call 
from a reporter who wants to write a story about 
the case and he answers the questions or gives them 
a quote and then he instructs me to give him 
background information.
      Q. So then was it typically done on a 
case-by-case basis or did you have blanket 
authorization regardless of specific interactions 
with the attorneys?
      A. These things evolved over time.  So in the 
beginning of the case when you're new to a subject 
you're generally fielding -- you generally get 
requests from the lawyers to answer a specific 
question that a reporter has.  So the reporter will 
call and they'll want to know whatever, where the 
house was in Colorado, and he'll say somewhere in 
Aspen, ask Glenn.  Then he'll send him to me or 
he'll send me to them.  Later on when you get where 
you've gathered a mass of information that covers a 
whole wide range of topics and, you know, if 
there's more coverage, you know, they will direct 
you to answer questions for the reporters covering 
the case.  They won't tell you on an individual 
basis talk to so-and-so.  It's a little of both.  
      Q. Was Fusion then paid for these 
communications with the media?  
      A. We were compensated for our litigation 
support and as part of that we were directed to 
talk to the media.  So in the fundamental sense 
yes, we were.  Specifically paid for individual 
conversations, I don't think so.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Do you bill hourly?
      MR. SIMPSON:  It depends on the case.  
      MR. FOSTER:  On this case?
      MR. SIMPSON:  I think we did on this case.  
      MR. FOSTER:  So did you bill for 
conversations with the press on this case?
      MR. SIMPSON:  I'm sorry to say I don't know.  
I probably did not.  Generally speaking, what I 
would bill for would be to attend events where 
there would be press.  So if I was at a court 
hearing -- most of the press was around court 
hearings.  So I would go to a court hearing with 
the lawyers and there would be reporters there.  So 
part of what I was billing for was answering their 
questions.
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. And with which news organizations did 
Fusion communicate in relation to the Prevezon 
case?
      A. I will try to remember them.  It was the 
major news organizations that were covering the 
litigation.  Usually it was their courthouse or 
legal reporters.  So it was Bloomberg, New York 
Times, Wall Street Journal, probably Reuters, Legal 
360.  I'm sure there were a handful of others.
      Q. Was the Financial Times possibly one of 
them?  
      A. Yes.  
      Q. Politico?  
      A. They approached us with -- they had been 
getting information from Bill Browder.  He had 
alleged to them that we were part of a big campaign 
on Capitol Hill and that we were engaged in 
lobbying and that it was all designed to affect 
legislation or smear him or Sergei Magnitsky.  So 
eventually we did end up dealing with that, but I 
don't remember whether we dealt with them prior to 
that.  I don't think they covered the case prior to 
that.  
      Q. What about NBC?
      A. We would have -- I'm sorry.  Yes.  
      Q. And the New Republic?
      A. I think so.
      Q. And do you recall what information you 
provided to each or is that too into the weeds?
      A. I don't know if it's in the weeds, but 
generally speaking, the work -- we provided 
information about the work that I had done about 
William Browder's credibility.  The whole case 
ended up -- when I said when he declined to appear 
voluntarily as I am here and explain things, you 
know, it ended up being an issue of why he didn't 
want to talk.  So a lot of it was about his 
credibility, about his account of his activities in 
Russia, about his history of tax avoidance, all 
these things.  
      Q. Did Fusion provide the media information 
alleging that Browder had illicitly engineered the 
purchase of 133 million shares of Gazprom?
      A. I don't know for sure, but we certainly 
did research on that issue.  
      Q. And you described investigating these 
series of issues.  How did you acquire the 
information in the course of this investigate?
      A. We used the methods that I've described 
here today.  We pulled court records, we pulled 
corporate records, we, you know, pulled real estate 
records, SEC securities filings, that sort of 
thing.  
      Q. And was any of the information you 
provided to the media information that wasn't the 
result of your own research but that had been 
passed along to you by Baker Hostetler or Prevezon?
      A. I think the answer to that is yes, but I'm 
struggling to think of a specific example.  As I 
was saying earlier, the lawyers did a lot of the 
research too.  So there was obviously a sharing of 
research where, you know, we were feeding research 
to them and they were housing a central repository 
of research and then the research would become 
memoranda and given in court filings.  In a lot of 
these cases we were giving people court filings.  
So the information was mixed together from various 
sources.  
      Q. Did Fusion independently verify the 
information provided by Baker Hostetler or Prevezon 
or in this circumstance was it assumed to be 
reliable given your work with them?
      A. We certainly did not independently verify 
everything that the lawyers generated in the case.  
That would have been an enormous task and it would 
have made no sense.  
      I just want to stress that I've worked with 
Baker Hostetler for -- you know, since 2009, so I 
guess going on over eight years, and they're very 
good lawyers and very conservative.  So if they 
provided me with information that they had 
gathered, I would have been confident -- I was 
confident in the quality of their work.  
      Q. And did Prevezon or Baker Hostetler ever 
direct Fusion to relay to the media information 
that they had provided to Fusion?
      A. I'm sorry.  Can you say that again.  
      Q. Did Baker Hostetler or Prevezon direct 
Fusion to relay to the media information that they 
had provided to you?
      A. I don't specifically recall an example of 
that, but I think as a general sort of operating 
principle we were working at their direction and 
they were providing us with, you know, case 
information.  So I think so, but I just don't have 
an idea.  
      Q. And did anyone at Fusion or perhaps 
Mr. Baumgartner review Russian documents related to 
the Prevezon matter?
      A. Yes.  
      Q. Do any --
      A. Most of them were Russian court 
documents.  
      Q. Do any Fusion employees or associates 
speak Russian?
      A. No.  I'll qualify that.  Depends on how 
you define associate.  Edward isn't an employee of 
the company, but he speaks Russian.  He's a 
subcontractor.  
      Q. Aside from Mr. Baumgartner, do you have 
any other support from Russian-speaking individuals 
in reviewing the Russian documents?
      A. Not in my company, at least not that I can 
recall.  There was other Russian speakers I think 
that were engaged by Baker Hostetler in various 
situations, like translators, Russian bilingual 
lawyers, that sort of thing.  
      Q. Do you remember the names of any of those 
people?
      A. Anatoli, whose last name I can't really 
pronounce, was a New York-based English-Russian 
court translator.  He was mostly a courtroom 
translator.  So I don't know whether he -- I really 
don't know the extent of their other involvement 
with other people in these things.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Can I just back up before we get 
too far afield of this.  I want to follow up on an 
answer that you gave earlier.  You described your 
interactions with the press as primarily being 
directed to answer questions, in other words, the 
contact as being initiated by the press.  That's my 
understanding of how you described it.  
      MR. LEVY:  I don't think that's a complete 
summary of what he said.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Feel free to correct me if I'm 
wrong.  My question is were there instances where 
you were initiating contact with the press or 
pitching stories to the press?
      MR. SIMPSON:  Sure.  I mean, the range of 
things that you would do, you know, again, it would 
evolve.  In the beginning you were going to a lot 
of hearings and a lot of legal reporters are 
showing up and you're mostly answering their 
questions.  Depending on the setting, you know, you 
might get a question for the lawyers like is anyone 
from Reuters going to be there and you would reach 
out to Reuters and say are you guys sending someone 
to this hearing.  So there was definitely some 
reach out like that.  Then we would also talk to 
reporters, you know, generally covering issues of 
corruption or law or Russia or whatever and say, 
you know, we're involved in a really weird court 
case, you might be interested in this.  
      MR. FOSTER:  So is it fair to say that part 
of your job, then, was to locate reporters who 
would write about these matters from a point of 
view that was advantageous to your client?
      MR. SIMPSON:  Yes, but I think we should note 
here that William Browder is an especially 
aggressive media self-promoter and promoter of his 
story.  So for much of this case it was reactive 
and we were constantly besieged with reporters 
pursuing negative stories about Prevezon, the 
events of the Prevezon case that had been given to 
them by William Browder.  So, you know, unhappily, 
I would say, you know, a lot of what we were doing 
was simply responding to his wild allegations, 
unsupported wild allegations.  
      There were certainly moments, particularly 
concerning his unwillingness to appear for a 
deposition, where we said to some reporters, hey, 
guy, you know, he's just dodged his third subpoena, 
you might want to write about this, it's pretty 
funny.  In fact, you know, the third one he ran 
down a street in Manhattan in the middle of a 
blizzard to get away from our process servers, but 
that one we actually had them film it.  
      So, you know, did we want to get that 
covered, did we think it was important that people 
know that this guy was unwilling to appear in court 
in public under oath to talk about the story that 
he'd been selling for years about his activities in 
Russia?  Yeah, we wanted people to know that.
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. Other than the media and Baker Hostetler, 
did Fusion provide any information regarding the 
Prevezon matter to any other third parties?
      A. I don't have a specific recollection of 
doing so.  If there's a specific incident that 
you'd like to ask about I'd be happy to try and 
answer that.  I don't remember.  
      Q. We'll get into that a little bit more.  
      Also to go back to the translator you 
mentioned, you said Anatoli and that you didn't 
know how to pronounce --
      A. Samochornov I think is his --
      Q. Okay.
      A. I'm massacring it.  Again, it's something 
that's in the public record.  
      Q. Do you know Rinat Akhmetshin?
      A. Yes, I do.  
      MR. MUSE:  Spell it.
      MR. DAVIS:  Sure.  R-I-N-A-T, 
A-K-H-M-E-T-S-H-I-N.  
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. When did you first meet Mr. Akhmetshin?  
      A. When I was a reporter at the Wall Street 
Journal.  
      Q. And as far as you know, what is his 
business?
      A. Some kind of PR consulting lobbyist.  I 
think he's a registered lobbyist.  
      Q. Have you ever worked with Mr. Akhmetshin?
      A. I've been -- in the Prevezon case I 
interacted with him.  I think -- again, this has 
unhelpfully been distorted by William Browder into 
some sort of economic relationship or conspiracy or 
something.  I don't have any economic relations 
with him.  You know, I've bumped into him over the 
years around town.  So, you know, the only thing 
that I specifically recall having done with him was 
interacting for a brief period on the Prevezon 
case.  
      Q. You don't recall working with him for any 
other clients or cases?
      A. Let's be clear, I'm sure we did not do 
business together, but I do work on areas of the 
world where he's from, Central Asia, former Soviet 
Union, and he is, as I'm sure you've seen, a guy 
around town who knows lots of people who cover this 
stuff.  I met him in connection with some stories I 
was doing on Kazakhstan at the Wall Street Journal.  
That's the kind of context I've bumped into him 
over the years.  He's told me various things and I 
think I even met one of his clients at one point, 
but it wasn't a business thing.  I don't think I 
was doing any work.  I was just networking.  
      Q. You said he told you various things.  Do 
you mean he would pass along information to you?
      A. The information that I remember was about 
his Kyrgyzstan stuff.  There was a congressional 
investigation into Kyrgyzstan that he claimed 
credit for having started and he told me about it 
for some reason, but it wasn't because we were 
doing business together.  It was coffee or 
something.  
      Q. You said he claimed credit for having 
started the congressional investigation?
      A. That's my recollection, but this was some 
years ago.  
      Q. And you said you met one of his clients.  
Do you remember which client?
      A. A former Kazakh politician whose name 
escapes me.  
      Q. Do you remember when you met that client?
      A. Years ago in London.  
      Q. Has Mr. Akhmetshin ever been paid by 
Fusion GPS?
      A. Not to my knowledge.  
      Q. Has he ever provided information to Fusion 
GPS for use in your work?
      A. I don't have a specific recollection of 
him having done so.  I would hesitate to say so 
categorically because I've been running this 
business now for a number of years and I would have 
interacted with him at various times and ways that 
I probably don't remember, but not that I 
specifically recall.  
      Q. Has Mr. Akhmetshin ever paid Fusion GPS 
for work?
      A. Not to my knowledge.  
      Q. You mentioned interacting with him in the 
Prevezon matter.  What did you understand his role 
to be in the Prevezon work?  
      A. I did not have a clear understanding of 
his role initially.  He started attending meetings 
sometime in 2016, just a handful of things, and 
it's -- you know what?  I don't recall anyone ever 
saying to me you're not doing X, Y, or Z.  They may 
have.  I just don't recall.  The lane that I was in 
was the court case and this fight over whether 
Browder would have to testify, which morphed then 
into this fight over whether -- you know, his 
allegations that John Moscow had a conflict of 
interest.  So I was very focused on that.  These 
other issues came up two plus years into the case 
and he was clearly dealing with them, but I don't 
recall anyone sort of giving me a specific 
explanation, you know, of what he was doing.  
      MR. FOSTER:  What other issues?
      MR. SIMPSON:  The issues of the -- what do 
you call it, HRAGI, the foundation and the 
congressional stuff.  
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. You mentioned he started showing up at 
meetings in 2016.  Who else attended these 
meetings?
      A. I don't specifically remember.  I mean, Ed 
Lieberman I think was at a meeting.  Again, I don't 
think it was -- it wasn't a lot of meetings, just 
one or two, but it was at Baker Hostetler.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Can you explain briefly who Ed 
Lieberman is.  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Ed Lieberman is a lawyer in 
Washington who has a specialty in international tax 
who worked for Baker Hostetler on some of the 
analysis of the alleged tax evasion by Hermitage 
Capital and William Browder.  And then subsequently 
also he knows Rinat from I guess, I don't know, 
college or something and subsequently the two of 
them were working on the -- I don't know what to 
call it, the congressional stuff.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Lobbying Congress?
      MR. SIMPSON:  I believe they registered to 
lobby Congress.  
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. Did Fusion provide any of its research to 
Mr. Akhmetshin whether directly or through an 
intermediary such as Baker Hostetler?  
      A. Yes.  We were directed to do so by Baker 
Hostetler.  
      Q. And do you know or have reason to believe 
whether Mr. Akhmetshin used that information when 
he spoke with people on the Hill?
      A. I have reason to believe that.  I don't 
have specific knowledge of his discussions with 
people on the Hill.  I don't remember.  He may have 
told me what he did.  As I say, it was not the 
focus of my work.  
      Q. Has Mr. Akhmetshin ever said anything to 
you indicating or implying that he had worked with 
the Russian government?
      A. Well, I knew he had been a soldier, I knew 
he had been in the Soviet military, and I also knew 
that he went to Moscow a fair bit because he said 
on several occasions I'm in Moscow or I'm going to 
Moscow.  He may have -- I don't recall whether he 
mentioned having worked with the Russian 
government.  
      Q. Has he ever said anything to you 
indicating or implying that he had worked for 
Russian intelligence more specifically?
      A. Well, as I said, I'm sure that he had 
mentioned to me maybe back in, you know, the time 
when I was at the Wall Street Journal that he was 
in the Soviet military and he had some kind of 
low-level intelligence position, but I don't 
remember anything beyond that.  He certainly didn't 
say anything in recent years about having any 
current connections with Russian intelligence.  
      Q. Has he ever said anything to you 
indicating or implying that he has contacts or 
connections with Russian government officials?
      A. Not that I specifically recall.  
      Q. Do you have reason to believe that he has 
ties to the Russian government?
      A. I have reason to wonder whether he has 
ties to the Russian government, but, you know, in 
the course of my work for Baker Hostetler the 
question of whether he had some connection to the 
Russian government wasn't germane really.  It just 
didn't come up.  Obviously with the news of this 
meeting at Trump Tower and the allegations in the 
media that there's some relationship there I share 
everyone's interest in the answer to that 
question.  
      Q. Do you know Natalia Veselnitskaya?
      A. Yes.  
      Q. When did you first interact with 
Ms. Veselnitskaya?  
      A. I believe it was sometime in 2014.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever worked with 
Ms. Veselnitskaya?
      A. Didn't I just answer that?  Yes.  I mean, 
she was the lawyer, the Russian lawyer who retained 
Baker Hostetler who retained us.  So when you say 
"worked with," I don't know that as a technical 
meaning, but we interacted with her as part of the 
Prevezon litigation.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever been paid by her?
      A. Well, she arranged -- as the lawyer for 
Prevezon she would have arranged for Prevezon to 
pay Baker Hostetler which paid us.  So if that's 
what your question is, then the answer is yes, but 
I mean, I don't think the money came from her.  It 
came from Prevezon.  
      Q. Were there any direct payments that didn't 
go through Baker Hostetler?
      A. No.  
      Q. So what did you understand her role to be 
in the litigation?  You said she was the attorney 
for Prevezon.  Was she managing the case for 
Prevezon?
      A. I was not introduced to her originally.  
The original way that she was -- it came up in my 
conversations with Mark Cymrot and other Baker 
lawyers was as the person who had hired them who 
had the information about the extortion case 
against Demetri Baranovsky.  It was represented to 
me by Mark Cymrot that she handled that matter and 
was familiar with the prosecution of Demetri 
Baranovsky and very well versed in the events of 
the extortion.  So, you know, that's how I learned 
of her and I think that's probably -- our first 
interactions were probably about that subject.
      Q. Did she provide Fusion with the 
information about that extortion case?
      A. Well, I certainly discussed it with her at 
some point, but it was all in Russian.  You know, 
the bulk of the Russian-English translating just 
for, you know, chain of evidence reasons went from 
her to Baker Hostetler.  They would have materials 
analyzed and translated and then they would -- I 
don't read a word of Russian.  So I would get the 
certified translations of stuff from Baker.  
      Q. And beyond your interactions with her 
about the extortion issue, what type of interaction 
did you have with her in the course of the Prevezon 
work?
      A. In the early period it was I believe 
largely about this extortion case.  Later on when 
we would appear in court it would -- you know, she 
would come to some of the Court hearings and the 
issue of Browder's efforts to avoid having to 
testify were front and center, sort of the main 
issue for quite a while.  So I don't remember 
specific conversations with her about that, but 
that's what we would have discussed.  
      Q. Have you met in person with her on other 
occasions besides court hearings?
      A. I attended a couple client dinners and I 
think that's about it.  
      Q. Do you recall when and where those would 
have been?
      A. I recall some of the when and the where.  
There were a couple of dinners in New York and a 
couple of dinners in D.C.  I don't remember when 
they started.  I think probably 2015.  And there 
was some in 2016 in both cities.  
      Q. Were any in June 2016?
      A. Yes.  Two.  
      Q. Were those in New York or in D.C.?
      A. I believe that one was in New York and one 
was in D.C.
      Q. Do you recall the specific date of either?
      A. I didn't until we tried to piece these 
things together, but June 8th I think was the 
dinner in New York and I think the 10th was the 
dinner in D.C., something like that.  
      Q. And what were the purposes of these 
dinners?
      A. Well, the first one was just an obligatory 
client dinner which, you know, when you work on a 
legal case you get invited to dinner with the 
clients.  The one in D.C. was more of a social 
thing.  It wasn't -- she was at it, but it wasn't 
really about the case.  It was just a bunch of Mark 
Cymrot's friends.  You know, the editor of the 
Washington Post book section was there and his wife 
who's a well-known author were also there.  I can't 
remember who else was there.  But anyway, she sat 
at the other end of the table from me and, you 
know, as I said, she doesn't really speak English 
and I don't speak Russian.  So not a lot of 
chit-chat.  
      Q. Was it your understanding that the 
research you provided to Baker Hostetler would then 
be passed on to Ms. Veselnitskaya?
      A. To the extent that it was useful and 
interesting to her I'm sure they did, yes. 
      Q. Has she ever said anything to you, 
presumably via a translator, indicating or implying 
she had worked with the Russian government?
      A. No, but Mark Cymrot told me when he told 
me of her existence that she was a former 
prosecutor.  
      Q. And has she ever said anything to you more 
specifically indicating or implying that she had 
worked for Russian intelligence?
      A. No.  
      Q. Do you have any reasons to believe that 
Ms. Veselnitskaya has ties to the Russian 
government?
      A. I know what I've read in the newspaper.  
      Q. Beyond that?
      A. Beyond that my impression of her was of 
someone who, you know, was a very smart and 
ambitious lawyer, but not like a big political 
player in the Kremlin.  Of course given to wonder 
given all the recent events and disclosures that I 
was unaware of whether my assessment of her was 
right or wrong.  As we sit here today, the jury's 
kind of out.  I honestly can tell you all I knew is 
she didn't seem to be a heavy hitter in the Kremlin 
world.  
      Q. This might be a little repetitive, but 
when did you first meet Ed Lieberman?
      A. I don't remember specifically, but it was 
years ago.  
      Q. I believe you described his business.  
Have you ever worked with Mr. Lieberman?
      A. I don't think so.  
      Q. Or Fusion more broadly?  
      A. Not that I can recall.  
      Q. Have you ever paid him or been paid by 
him?
      A. No.  
      Q. And what exactly did you understand his 
role to be in the Prevezon issue?
      A. Well, the initial issue that we worked on 
together was the issues about alleged tax evasion 
by Hermitage Capital in Russia and William 
Browder's decision to surrender his citizenship 
shortly before the tax rules on surrendering your 
citizenship changed, which tended to make us 
suspect that it was motivated by tax 
considerations.  At that time we didn't know about 
the offshore companies in BVI.  
      Q. And what type of interactions did you have 
with Mr. Lieberman in the course of the Prevezon 
work?
      A. Collegial, I guess professional I would 
say.  Ed's, you know, got a background in tax.  So 
we talked about tax stuff.  Later on, much later on 
after a couple years had gone by, you know, he and 
Rinat embarked on this other project, but I don't 
have a specific recollection of whether I dealt 
with him directly on any of that.  
      Q. Did Fusion provide its research to 
Mr. Lieberman either directly or through an 
intermediary such as Baker Hostetler?
      A. Not that I recall, but if the lawyers 
asked me to send them something, I would send them 
something.  
      Q. Do you have any reason to believe that 
Mr. Lieberman has ties to the Russian government?
      A. No.  
      Q. Do you know Mr. Robert Arakelian, 
A-R-A-K-E-L-I-A-N?  
      A. There was a guy at a lunch or dinner or 
something named Robert and he was introduced to me 
as Robert.  Again, when you're going to like these 
client meals or things like that, you know, we 
didn't get into a lot of details of who he was.  I 
just remember he was introduced as a friend Denis 
Katsyv, K-A-T-S-Y-V.  That's my recollection.  It 
may be that he's a friend of Rinat's.  I don't 
really know.  
      Q. As far as you know, what is Mr. -- what is 
Robert's business?
      A. I don't know.  
      Q. So presumably, then, has Fusion ever 
worked with him?
      A. Not to my knowledge.  
      Q. What did you understand Mr. Arakelian's 
role to be in the Prevezon work?
      A. I didn't know he had a role.  If someone 
told me I've forgotten, but, again, I was pretty 
narrowly focused on a few things and he wasn't 
involved in those things.  
      Q. Were you aware that he was a registered 
lobbyist for HRAGI?
      A. No.  
      Q. Other than meeting him at that dinner, did 
you have any other interactions with him in the 
course of the Prevezon work?
      A. Not that I can recall.  
      Q. Did Fusion provide any research to him 
directly or through an intermediary such as Baker 
Hostetler?
      A. I don't know.  I mean, if Baker Hostetler 
gave him information from my research or my 
company's research, they didn't tell me.  
      Q. Do you have any reason to believe he has 
ties to the Russian government?
      A. No.  
      Q. But you said he is friends with the 
Katsyvs?
      A. I shouldn't speculate.  I recall he was 
introduced to me as a friend of someone and I don't 
remember whether it was Rinat or Denis Katsyv, but 
it was one or the other.  
      Q. Do you know Howard Schweitzer?  
      A. I don't, not that I can recall.  
      Q. So you've never done any business with 
him; is that correct?
      A. I don't think so.  
      Q. Do you know if he had any role in the 
Prevezon work?
      A. I've read that his firm was involved in 
the lobbying, but it's just something I read.  I 
don't believe I had any personal interactions.  
      Q. Do you know who Denis Katsyv is?
      A. He's the owner of Prevezon.  
      Q. Did you have any interactions with him?
      A. Again, I sat in a few meetings, a couple 
of client meals, but it was limited by his limited 
English and my limited Russian.  
      Q. In your interactions with 
Ms. Veselnitskaya did she claim to be acting as the 
attorney for Prevezon Holdings and the Katsyv 
family or just for Prevezon Holdings?
      A. She was introduced to me as the lawyer for 
Prevezon.  I never --
      MR. LEVY:  When you say "the Katsyv family," 
Denis Katsyv is the only person named in the 
lawsuit.  I'm just wondering what you mean by that.
      MR. DAVIS:  Denis or Pyotr.  
      MR. SIMPSON:  As I said, she was introduced 
to me as the lawyer for Prevezon.  So -- and I 
think the lawyer for Denis.  So beyond that I 
don't know.  
BY MR. DAVIS:
      Q. Do you know who Pyotr Katsyv is?
      A. I do now.  I mean, I knew a little bit 
about him at the time, but now that it's become an 
issue, at least in the mind of William Browder, 
obviously I know who he is.  
      Q. Did you have any interactions with him?
      A. No.  
      Q. Do you know Chris Cooper?
      A. Yes.  
      Q. How long have you known Mr. Cooper?
      A. Probably ten years, maybe longer.  
      Q. As far as you know, what is his 
business?  
      A. Public relations.  
      Q. Is he associated with the Potomac Square 
Group?  
      A. I believe he is the Potomac Square Group.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever worked with Mr. Cooper or 
the Potomac Square Group?
      A. Yes.  
      Q. Have you paid him or been paid by him?
      A. I believe we've paid him.  I don't know if 
he's paid us.  
      Q. What did you understand his role to be in 
the Prevezon work?
      A. He worked on his movie doing -- 
essentially as I understand it and recall it, he 
was asked to help find a place where they could 
show this movie.  William Browder likes to use the 
press, but he doesn't like anyone talking freely 
about him or raising questions about the story of 
his activities in Russia.  So when this movie came 
together they were going to screen it in Europe and 
he hired the meanest libel firm in London which has 
previously sued me on behalf of Saudi billionaires 
and -- unsuccessfully I might add, and he 
threatened to file libel cases against the people 
who were daring to offer to host a showing of this 
film.  
      So, as you know, they don't have the First 
Amendment in Europe.  So he was able to 
successfully suppress the showings of this film 
which questioned his credibility and whether -- the 
truth of his story and his activities in Russia.  
So Chris came up with the idea of showing it at the 
Newseum which is dedicated to the First Amendment 
and where they don't have much time for libel 
lawyers and people trying to suppress free speech
      Q. And was the showing arranged for Prevezon, 
for HRAGI?  Who was arranging this?
      A. I don't know.  
      Q. Did Fusion have any role in that showing?
      A. We supplied some names of people.  They 
wanted to round up people who would be interested 
in coming, journalists, friends, people interested 
in Russia, and we supplied names for them.  
      Q. Did Fusion contact any journalists to 
inform them about the film or the showing or to 
encourage them to write about it?
      A. I believe that I mentioned it to some 
journalists in terms of showing up.  I don't 
believe I -- I just don't remember whether I tried 
to get anyone to write anything about it, but if I 
did I would have had good reason to because it was 
all about William Browder's credibility which was 
the subject that we were hotly litigating in 
New York and I had been on this -- you know, we had 
been on this, you know, multi-year effort to get 
him to answer questions about his activities in 
Russia.  So it was the central issue in the 
Prevezon case.  
      Q. So you mentioned Mr. Cooper was involved 
in establishing this screening.  Do you know how he 
came to be hired by Prevezon or HRAGI or whoever?
      A. I know a little.  As I was saying earlier, 
I've known Chris from Wall Street Journal days and 
I refer business to him.  I know this doesn't fit 
with the Browder theory of the case, but I don't do 
a lot of public relations work and I refer, you 
know, public relations jobs to other people, 
friends.  
      So when the trial was approaching in the 
Prevezon case I kept telling the lawyers you guys 
have to hire a PR guy, I'm not going to do this, 
it's just too much work.  So we were trying to find 
PR people and he was one of the people that I 
recommended as a trial PR guy.  From there I don't 
have a clear sense of how he ended up working on 
the movie, but it wouldn't be surprising if they 
had his name from the previous referral.  
      Q. Do you know who came up with the idea of 
creating HRAGI?
      A. I would be guessing.  I just don't 
remember.  Someone may have told me.  I don't 
remember.  
      Q. What kind of interaction did Fusion have 
directly or indirectly with HRAGI?
      A. I remember hearing about it.  I remember 
Rinat talking about it and maybe others.  We were 
very peripheral to this stuff and I don't remember 
if I had any specific interactions with it.  I 
don't know if they had an office, I don't know if 
they had a bank account.  I just don't know.  I do 
know they registered to lobby.  
      Q. Do you know Lanny Wiles, L-A-N-N-Y, 
W-I-L-E-S?  
      A. I know him a little bit.  I met him 
originally when I was a journalist.  He was 
introduced to me as a well-connected Republican 
consultant type and I bumped into him once or twice 
over the years.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever worked with him?
      A. I don't think so, no.  
      Q. What did you understand his role to be in 
the Prevezon-HRAGI work?
      A. Again, my understanding of people's 
roles on -- he was involved in the lobbying.  He's 
a lobbyist.  He was involved in the lobbying.  
Beyond that I really couldn't say.  
      Q. Did you have any involvement with him in 
the course of your work on the Prevezon?
      A. I think we had lunch once.  
      Q. Do you have any reason to believe that 
Mr. Wiles has ties to the Russian government?
      A. No.  
      Q. So as you mentioned, in 2016 people 
associated with HRAGI met and attempted to meet 
with people in a number of congressional offices.  
Were you aware of any of these meetings?
      A. The meeting that I was aware of that I 
remember hearing about was a meeting that actually 
didn't happen which was some meeting that Mark 
Cymrot was supposed to have.  It's possible that he 
was going to meet some Congressman.  It's possible 
that I was told about other meetings by some of 
these people that we're discussing, but I don't 
specifically remember hearing about other meetings.  
I was generally aware that there was stuff going on 
on the Hill.  
      Q. If I could refer back to Exhibit 2, the 
partial privilege log.  The first page of that 
document lists a 5/13/16 e-mail from Rinat 
Akhmetshin to Mark Cymrot with the subject/ 
description "Appointment with Cong. Hill."  Do you 
believe that to be a reference Congressman French 
Hill?
      A. I don't know.  I believe it was a 
Congressman named Hill.  I don't know if it was a 
Congressman named French Hill.  
      Q. And do you recall any other mentions of 
meetings with any particular congressional offices 
or committees?
      A. I'm sure -- I'm sorry.  I believe I recall 
Rinat telling me that he was talking to Paul 
Behrends, B-E-H-R-E-N-D-S.  It was either Rinat or 
Mark Cymrot or maybe both about some of these 
issues, but, again, I don't have a great 
recollection for the specifics.  
      Q. Did Fusion have any role in these 
meetings?
      A. I mean, I think we were asked for 
information, and to the extent that the lawyers 
wanted me to give somebody information I would hand 
it over to them.  It's their information.  
      Q. To the best of your knowledge, was that 
information referenced in the meetings with 
congressional staff members?
      A. I don't know.  
      Q. You mentioned you had dinner with 
Ms. Veselnitskaya on June 8th and 10th of 2016.  
Were you generally aware of her trip to the United 
States in June?
      A. I was.  She had trouble getting a visa and 
the lawyers -- there was some drama over whether 
she could get a visa.  This would have been a 
recurring issue in the case.  You know, our lawyers 
believed that the Justice Department was 
interfering with her visas because they wanted to 
inhibit her from collaborating with us on the case, 
but I don't have any independent knowledge of her 
visa issues.  I just remember that was an issue.  
      I remember that at the last minute she got a 
visa to come to this Appellate Court hearing on 
June 9th in New York, and that was the way that she 
persuaded them to give her a visa was that she 
needed to attend a hearing which was on an appeal 
of a District Court ruling related to the 
disqualification motion that had been filed by 
William Browder against Baker Hostetler after he 
was ordered to give testimony.  
      So that's the history of that court hearing, 
which was after the Court said he couldn't get out 
of the subpoena and he had to give testimony, he 
then triggered a new delay in his testimony by 
filing a disqualification motion.  
      Q. And that hearing was on June 8th; is that 
correct?
      A. I believe it was June 9th.  
      Q. Did you have any other information about 
Ms. Veselnitskaya's itinerary or intended 
activities on this trip?
      A. No.  I mean, I can tell you what I knew.  
I knew she was coming in I guess on the 8th.  I 
don't have a clear recollection of the dinner, but 
I know -- I believe we had a dinner.  The problem 
is I had more than one.  So I don't have a clear 
recollection of it.  
      Anyway, I saw her the next day in court at 
this hearing and I'm sure we exchanged greetings, 
but, as I say, she speaks Russian and I speak 
English.  I think she was with Anatoli and she left 
afterwards.  I know she didn't tell me any other 
plans she had.  
      Q. So you had dinner the 8th, saw her in 
court on the 9th; is that correct?  
      A. Yes.  
      Q. And dinner again on the 10th?
      A. In D.C.
      Q. Did you see her any other time?
      A. Not that I recall.  
      Q. Did Fusion play any role assisting 
Ms. Veselnitskaya during that trip?  
      A. Not that I recall.  
      Q. It has widely been reported 
Ms. Veselnitskaya and Mr. Akhmetshin and others met 
with Donald Trump, Junior, Paul Manafort, and Jared 
Kushner on June 9th, 2016.  Were you aware of this 
meeting beforehand?
      A. No.  
      Q. It didn't come up at the dinner the night 
before?  
      A. No.  
      Q. When did you first become aware of the 
meeting?  
      A. Around the time it broke in the New York 
Times.  I was stunned.  
      Q. Is it correct that that means it wasn't 
discussed at the dinner on the 10th?
      A. No, but, again, you know, the dinner on 
the 10th was I was at one end of the table talking 
to a woman about her biography on Simon Bolivar and 
she was at the other end with Rinat and she doesn't 
really speak much English.  So, you know, 
fortunately I was not going to do a lot of 
entertaining.  
      Q. I should clarify, discussed with you.
      A. Yeah.  So if she discussed with somebody 
else, I wouldn't --
      Q. Right.
      Do you have any knowledge of the purpose of 
the meeting other than what you read in the media?
      A. No.  No.  Well, I mean, I read she wanted 
to give them some information and I wondered 
whether it was information from the Prevezon case 
and I've seen speculation to that effect, but I 
don't have any knowledge.  
      Q. If we had the specifics of the 
information, would you be able to clarify whether 
it had come from Fusion?
      A. I think so.  If it's, you know, stuff I 
worked on I obviously will recognize it, yes.  
      Q. As far as you know, how was this meeting 
arranged or do you have any information beyond 
what's in the public --
      A. I don't.  
      Q. Other than recent media reports, do you 
have any reason to believe that the meeting was an 
attempt by the Russian government to make contact 
with the Trump campaign?
      A. I mean, that's kind of an analytical 
question.  I don't have any factual reason to 
believe that.  I don't have possession of any 
information about this that would allow me to say 
one way or the other.  You know, as a sort of 
question of counterintelligence and just general 
investigation of Russian methods and that sort of 
thing, I think that's a reasonable interpretation.  
      Q. Have you had any communications about the 
meeting at any time with Rinat Akhmetshin?
      A. No.  No.  
      Q. Have you had any communications about the 
meeting, again, at any time with Ms. Veselnitskaya?
      A. No.  
      Q. Have you had any communications about the 
meeting with anyone you worked with on the Prevezon 
matter?
      A. Probably.  I think we all exchanged mutual 
expressions of surprise.  I think I talked to Paul 
Levine, a lawyer at Baker Hostetler.  I'm sure I 
discussed it with Ed Baumgartner, Mark Cymrot.  You 
know, if anyone knew about it they certainly didn't 
confess it to me.  
      Q. Do you know -- I'm going to butcher this 
name -- Irakle Kaveladze?  
      A. I know who he is.  
      Q. I'll spell it.  I-R-A-K-L-E, last name 
K-A-V-E-L-A-D-Z-E.  
      A. No, I don't know.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever worked with him?
      A. No, not to my knowledge.  
      Q. To the best of your knowledge, did he have 
any role in the Prevezon or Magnitsky work?
      A. My knowledge is primarily of the Prevezon 
case and, to my knowledge, he was not involved in 
the Prevezon case in any way.  
      Q. Do you have any reason to believe beyond 
public reporting that he has ties to the Russian 
government?
      A. I've been told by a source that -- 
actually, I was told by a source that there was 
some reason to believe he had ties to the Russian 
government, and he directed me to a newspaper 
article which said that he had connections to a guy 
on the West Coast named Boris Goldstein who has 
been linked historically to Soviet Russian 
intelligence.  Beyond that I don't have any -- I 
don't have any information.  
      Q. And who was the source that told you that?
      A. I'm not going to talk about my source.  
      Q. I think you've already addressed this a 
little bit, but do you know Anatoli Samochornov?  
A-N-A-T-O-L-I, S-A-M-O-C-H-O-R-N-O-V.
      A. I met him in connection with this case.  
We've never had any kind of social or other 
relations beyond chatting in courthouses and that 
sort of thing, sitting in restaurants waiting for a 
hearing to start.  
      Q. Has Fusion ever worked with him other than 
on the Prevezon case?
      A. No.  
      Q. And to the best of your knowledge, what 
was his role in the Prevezon case?
      A. As I understood it, he was recruited off 
the rack basically as a certified -- a translator 
who had courtroom experience in New York who was 
qualified to do sort of technical-legal type 
translation work.  He, to my knowledge, didn't have 
a pre-existing relationship with Ms. Veselnitskaya 
or Prevezon.  That's my understanding to this day.  
      MR. DAVIS:  I think that's the end of our 
hour.  It is 1:04.  Let's go off the record.  
                   (Whereupon, at 1:05 p.m., the 
                    interview was recessed, to 
                    reconvene at 1:45 p.m., this 
                    same day.)
